Let's start our DevOps interview preparation with some basic questions.
As I mentioned before, I'm going to go over the questions and then you should pause the video.
Think of the answers and then go to the answer section.
And for the answers, I'm not going to go through line by line.
I'm just going to give you some pointers because whatever questions I am going over here, I already
covered everything in my lectures.
With that being said, let's get started.
So some of the very common DevOps basic questions that you confess in your interview are What is DevOps?
Mention some benefits of DevOps.
How does DevOps help microservice based projects?
What is the cultural change of DevOps?
Can you explain DevOps phases or the DevOps flow?
Can you name some tools for each phase?
What is CI?
What is KD?
What is the difference between continuous delivery and continuous deployment?
Name a tool to monitor Kubernetes.
What is infrastructure as code?
Name some benefits of ISC.
What are the sequence of commands to run terraform?
What is cloud formation?
What is Jenkins?
What are the types of Jenkin pipelines?
What is the Jenkins Multi Branch pipeline?
When would you use it?
What are Jenkins plug ins?
Name some of the plug ins you have used with Jenkins.
What is Jenkins file?
How do you set up a Jenkins job?
What are parameters in Jenkins?
What is a pipeline trigger?
How do you clone a git repository for Jenkins?
All right, so please pause the video.
Go back to the previous slide if needed.
Think about the answers and then unpause when you are ready.
So the first question what is DevOps?
Check out the DevOps.
What and why lecture.
You can skip the monolith to microservices part that I used to explain the evolution of modern application.
You can directly jump that.
Okay, DevOps automates everything end to end.
It is both cultural as well as technical change.
And then you can mention some benefits of DevOps as well as the general practices.
So the second question tied to the first question mentions some benefits.
So mentioned the benefits pretty straightforward and not much to mention here.
And then how does DevOps help Microsoft's best projects?
So here you can mention that almost all modern applications are done by microservices, and the benefit
of microservice is since they are independent of each other, you can develop new features fast and
you can deploy them frequently.
And you could even mention to impress that some of the large enterprises like Amazon, Netflix, they
deploy their microservices every few minutes and with traditional workflow that is not possible since
with DevOps everything is automated end to end, including the testing.
Using continuous deployment, microservices can be deployed into production without any manual intervention
and you can also end the answer by saying at the end of the day, developers can focus on the business
rather than fixing and maintaining and doing manual tedious tasks.
So it reduces the time to market and helps the business grow.
So every every company, when they interview you, they want to hear how they can grow their business.
So that's a good way to end any answer related to benefits.
Next question What is the cultural change of DevOps?
DevOps brings in two different parts.
One is technical.
Another is cultural.
So we talked about automating end to end different phases.
So those are all technical stuff.
The cultural change is prior to DevOps, the developer and operations used to be in different groups
working in silos with DevOps, developer operation belong to the same team.
Sometimes it is the same person.
So that is the cultural change.
And you can even mention that this actually increases collaboration, communication, professional satisfaction.
Can you explain DevOps phases and flow?
So please make sure you study that lecture where we go over DevOps phases, author, source, build,
test, etc. Make sure you understand what does each phase do?
And if you want to impress the interviewer, you go over the phases.
And then you can say that I have personally implemented this using Kubernetes or EC2, and then you
can explain the flow.
So check out the DevOps workflow lecture and then pick one workflow and then explain it.
Can you name some tools for each phase?
We already covered this in the tools lecture, so have at least one or two tools ready for each phase.
And whenever I get asked this name of the tool kind of questions, I always make it clear which tool
I have personally used.
So basically, let's say I get this question, I would say let's say for the build phase I have extensively
used Jenkins.
But beyond Jenkins, you can also use other tools available such as GitLab Code, build GitHub actions,
etc. In this way, you protect yourself from getting questions you don't know.
If you say for build, you can use git github actions, Jenkins, GitLab, etc. Then the interviewer
might ask OC Can you tell me a couple of challenges with GitHub actions?
And then you have to go and say, Oh, I actually have not used GitHub action, I have only used Jenkins.
So I kind of make it clear which tools I have used so that it kind of streamlines the questions as well.
What is CI?
What is said?
This question is super common almost in all interviews, so make sure you study that lecture.
CI stands for continuous integration, c d stands for either continuous delivery or continuous deployment.
So I'm not going to go through it here, but please, please, please watch that lecture.
It is one of the most common interview questions.
And on that note, I'll make sure you understand.
The difference between continuous delivery and continuous deployment.
Name a tool to monitor Kubernetes.
So this is one of the most popular tools.
So that's why I included this question, even though this is not a Kubernetes cause directly.
So the way you monitor Kubernetes using Prometheus, Prometheus is the open source tool.
And Prometheus just gathers the data in that time series format.
And using Rafinha, you can create metrics on top of those Prometheus data.
Another thing you can keep on your pocket if you are using it is you can also use cloud watch content
or insights.
So what is the advantage of Cloud Watch content or insights of our Prometheus class?
So we cloud rich container insights already gives you some pre-made metrics.
So with graph you have to go define metrics.
Cloud watch container insights gives you the important metrics out of the box so you don't have to go
create those.
Also, cloud watch container metrics.
Even if your system goal grows like crazy and all the metrics and all the data volume increases exponentially.
Amazon going to scale the backend infrastructure of Cloud Watch, whereas if you are running Prometheus
or Gryphon, you have to ensure that they are scaled if you are running your Prometheus server and graph
on a server.
Alternatively, you can use Amazon managed Prometheus, Amazon managed server.
So Amazon manages their but again with the good thing is it gives you a lot of flexibility.
You can import any metrics created by the community, you can even create metrics.
But the disadvantage is you have to ensure those metrics are safe to use.
There is no malicious code and you have to understand how to import metrics, all that stuff.
So if you are going to interview where you expect a lot of Kubernetes questions and make sure that you
study Prometheus, a next question What is infrastructure is called study that lecture.
This is a basic building block of DevOps.
And similarly, interviewer might try to confuse you by saying, Hey, name some benefits or What is
ISC?
So ISC is another way of saying infrastructure as code.
And as I mentioned in the things to learn to get a DevOps job, you should learn at least one infrastructure
as code in detail, either cloud formation or TerraForm.
Next question What are the sequence of commands to run TerraForm?
So check out the TerraForm video on the same note.
What is cloud formation?
Check out the hot formation lecture video.
It will be very similar as what is infrastructure as code.
And whenever someone asks you what is cloud formation, what is DevOps, it is a good idea to memorize
the definition, right?
So you can look up my lecture.
So memorize the first couple of lines where I actually give the definition, or you can google the definition.
What is cloud formation from actual NWS website or what is TerraForm?
And just memorize that first line or first two lines and then you can explain in your own language.
And personally, whenever someone asks me this kind of definition question, after I explain for a minute
or 2 minutes, I always add the benefits like so that the interviewer knows that you are not just like
a robot saying the definition.
So if someone asks me What is cloud formation?
I said, This is cloud formation, and then this is why cloud formation is so useful.
And next, similarly, what is Jenkins give the definition of Jenkins explain a little bit of the use
case as well as the benefits.
What are the types of Jenkins pipelines?
So her interviewer is asking about declarative and scripted pipelines, so make sure you study.
What are those and the differences.
I covered them in separate lectures.
Also, you could be asked on the same line What are different types of Jenkins jobs?
And sometimes folks mix those two things jobs and pipelines.
So different types of Jenkins jobs will be like freestyle jobs, pipeline jobs, a multi branch pipeline.
So make sure that after you answer if if they say what other types of Jenkins pipeline, you quickly
set declarative and scripted pipeline and maybe you can add on depending on the interview that hey,
even under the pipeline, there could be different flavors of pipeline such as regular pipeline, multi
branch pipeline, you can even have freestyle job, etc..
Next question, what is the Jenkins Multi Branch Pipeline?
When would you use it?
So again, I have a separate lecture on that study, that lecture to make sure you got that.
What are Jenkins plug in?
So this is one of the critical features of Jenkins.
So make sure you study the definition again, say the definition, and then give a couple benefits and
name some of the plugins you have used with.
Jenkins.
So have some of the plugin names already mentioned, some of the very, very popular plugins that's
really helpful, such as Docker plugin, GitHub plugin.
So one tactics is so I look up the job description like what other technology the company is using.
So if you see the job description has a lot of stuff about Kubernetes.
So you know, they will be very happy if they hear you have actually used a plugins related to Kubernetes.
So mentioned like Docker plugin, Kubernetes plugin started up a little bit on those.
And similarly, if you see that the job description has a lot of Ansible mentioned, then you could
mention Ansible etc. but have some sort of plugin names ready.
A next question.
Very important one.
What is Jenkins file?
So I have a separate video, a bunch of videos on this.
So please make sure you study that.
How do you set up a Jenkins job?
The interviewer is not looking for.
Okay, you click new item create a job.
INTERVIEWER is looking.
How do you automate a Jenkins job?
So you could say that you can set up a Jenkins job from the console by selecting build actions using
different plugins, but the recommended way to do that is using Jenkins file.
Jenkins file codifies whatever you're trying to do in your Jenkins job and you can put the Jenkins file
in a repository and point the Jenkins job to the repository and you can trigger the Jenkins jobs based
answer periodic time schedule or your GitHub repository can trigger the Jenkins job, and the Jenkins
job will pull that Jenkins file, which serves as the pipeline as code, and then execute your job.
And that's the proper way to do it.
What are parameters study up?
So I have separate lecture and bunch of workflows on this.
What is a pipeline trigger?
So study up different trigger mechanisms.
But again, the what the interviewer is looking for is the polling versus the push mechanism.
So the polling would be the Jenkins job every few minutes or a few seconds.
It needs to pull the GitHub repository and see if there are any changes.
So that is not recommended.
So the ideal way is to use a webhook.
So study up the how GitHub is webhook can push any notification and changes to the Jenkins job and Jenkins
job will automatically get triggered any time that is a change.
And then how do you clone a git repository via jenkins?
So you do this using checkout sxm in Jenkins file.
So Sxm is a special variable which instructs the checkout step to clone the git repository to the appropriate
Jenkins agent archives.
Those were some of the basic DevOps question and answer.
Let's jump into the intermediate question answers.